A* search
A graph traversal and pathfinding algorithm which is used in many fields of computer science due to its completeness, optimality, and optimal efficiency.
abductive logic programming
A high-level knowledge-representation framework that can be used to solve problems declaratively based on abductive reasoning.
abductive reasoning
Also abduction.
A form of logical inference which starts with an observation or set of observations then seeks to find the simplest and most likely explanation.
ablation
The removal of a component of an AI system.
abstract data type
A mathematical model for data types, where a data type is defined by its behavior from the point of view of a user of the data.
abstraction
The process of removing physical, spatial, or temporal details or attributes in the study of objects or systems.
accelerating change
A perceived increase in the rate of technological change throughout history.
action language
A language for specifying state transition systems, and is commonly used to create formal models of the effects of actions on the world.
action model learning
An area of machine learning concerned with creation and modification of software agent's knowledge about effects and preconditions of the actions.
action selection
A way of characterizing the most basic problem of intelligent systems: what to do next.
activation function
In artificial neural networks, the activation function of a node defines the output of that node given an input or set of inputs.
adaptive algorithm
An algorithm that changes its behavior at the time it is run, based on a priori defined reward mechanism or criterion.
adaptive neuro fuzzy inference system
A kind of artificial neural network that is based on fuzzy inference system.
admissible heuristic
In computer science, specifically in algorithms related to pathfinding, a heuristic function is said to be admissible if it never overestimates the cost of reaching the goal.
affective computing
The study and development of systems and devices that can recognize, interpret, process, and simulate human affects.
agent architecture
A blueprint for software agents and intelligent control systems, depicting the arrangement of components.
AI accelerator
A class of microprocessor or computer system designed as hardware acceleration for artificial intelligence applications.
AI-complete
In the field of artificial intelligence, the most difficult problems are informally known as AI-complete or AI-hard.
algorithm
An unambiguous specification of how to solve a class of problems.
algorithmic efficiency
A property of an algorithm which relates to the number of computational resources used by the algorithm.
algorithmic probability
In algorithmic information theory, algorithmic probability, also known as Solomonoff probability, is a mathematical method of assigning a prior probability to a given observation.
AlphaGo
A computer program that plays the board game Go.
ambient intelligence
Electronic environments that are sensitive and responsive to the presence of people.
analysis of algorithms
The determination of the computational complexity of algorithms.
analytics
The discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful patterns in data.
answer set programming
A form of declarative programming oriented towards difficult search problems.
ant colony optimization
A probabilistic technique for solving computational problems that can be reduced to finding good paths through graphs.
anytime algorithm
An algorithm that can return a valid solution to a problem even if it is interrupted before it ends.
application programming interface
A set of subroutine definitions, communication protocols, and tools for building software.
approximate string matching
The technique of finding strings that match a pattern approximately.
approximation error
The discrepancy between an exact value and some approximation to it.
argumentation framework
A way to deal with contentious information and draw conclusions from it.
artificial general intelligence
A type of AI that matches or surpasses human cognitive capabilities across a wide range of cognitive tasks.
artificial immune system
A class of computationally intelligent, rule-based machine learning systems inspired by the principles and processes of the vertebrate immune system.
artificial intelligence
Any intelligence demonstrated by machines, in contrast to the natural intelligence displayed by humans and other animals.
Artificial Intelligence Markup Language
An XML dialect for creating natural language software agents.
Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence
An international, nonprofit, scientific society devoted to promote research in, and responsible use of, artificial intelligence.
asymptotic computational complexity
In computational complexity theory, asymptotic computational complexity is the usage of asymptotic analysis for the estimation of computational complexity of algorithms and computational problems.
attention mechanism
Machine learning-based attention is a mechanism mimicking cognitive attention.
attributional calculus
A logic and representation system defined by Ryszard S. Michalski.
augmented reality
An interactive experience of a real-world environment where the objects that reside in the real-world are augmented by computer-generated perceptual information.
autoencoder
A type of artificial neural network used to learn efficient codings of unlabeled data.
automata theory
The study of abstract machines and automata, as well as the computational problems that can be solved using them.
automated machine learning
A field of machine learning which aims to automatically configure an ML system to maximize its performance.
automated planning and scheduling
A branch of artificial intelligence that concerns the realization of strategies or action sequences.
automated reasoning
An area of computer science and mathematical logic dedicated to understanding different aspects of reasoning.
autonomic computing
The self-managing characteristics of distributed computing resources, adapting to unpredictable changes.
autonomous car
A vehicle that is capable of sensing its environment and moving with little or no human input.
autonomous robot
A robot that performs behaviors or tasks with a high degree of autonomy.
backpropagation
A method used in artificial neural networks to calculate a gradient that is needed in the calculation of the weights to be used in the network.
backpropagation through structure
A gradient-based technique for training recurrent neural networks.
backpropagation through time
A gradient-based technique for training certain types of recurrent neural networks, such as Elman networks.
backward chaining
An inference method described colloquially as working backward from the goal.
bag-of-words model
A simplifying representation used in natural language processing and information retrieval.
batch normalization
A technique for improving the performance and stability of artificial neural networks.
Bayesian programming
A formalism and a methodology for having a technique to specify probabilistic models.
bees algorithm
A population-based search algorithm which mimics the food foraging behaviour of honey bee colonies.
behavior informatics
The informatics of behaviors so as to obtain behavior intelligence and behavior insights.
behavior tree
A mathematical model of plan execution used in computer science, robotics, control systems and video games.
belief desire intention software model
A software model developed for programming intelligent agents.
bias variance tradeoff
The property of a set of predictive models whereby models with a lower bias in parameter estimation have a higher variance.
big data
A term used to refer to data sets that are too large or complex for traditional data-processing application software to adequately deal with.
Big O notation
A mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.
binary tree
A tree data structure in which each node has at most two children.
blackboard system
An artificial intelligence approach based on the blackboard architectural model.
Boltzmann machine
A type of stochastic recurrent neural network and Markov random field.
Boolean satisfiability problem
The problem of determining if there exists an interpretation that satisfies a given Boolean formula.
boosting
A machine learning ensemble metaheuristic for primarily reducing bias.
bootstrap aggregating
A machine learning ensemble metaheuristic for primarily reducing variance.
brain technology
A technology that employs the latest findings in neuroscience.
branching factor
In computing, tree data structures, and game theory, the number of children at each node.
brute-force search
A very general problem-solving technique and algorithmic paradigm that consists of systematically enumerating all possible candidates.
capsule neural network
A machine learning system that is a type of artificial neural network that can be used to better model hierarchical relationships.
case-based reasoning
Broadly construed, the process of solving new problems based on the solutions of similar past problems.
chatbot
A computer program or an artificial intelligence which conducts a conversation via auditory or textual methods.
cloud robotics
A field of robotics that attempts to invoke cloud technologies such as cloud computing, cloud storage.
cluster analysis
The task of grouping a set of objects in such a way that objects in the same group are more similar to each other.
Cobweb
An incremental system for hierarchical conceptual clustering.
cognitive architecture
Hypothesis about the fixed structures that provide a mind, whether in natural or artificial systems.
cognitive computing
The term cognitive computing has been used to refer to new hardware and software that mimics the functioning of the human brain.
cognitive science
The interdisciplinary scientific study of the mind and its processes.
combinatorial optimization
Finding an optimal object from a finite set of objects.
committee machine
A type of artificial neural network using a divide and conquer strategy.
commonsense knowledge
Facts about the everyday world that all humans are expected to know.
commonsense reasoning
A branch of artificial intelligence concerned with simulating the human ability to make presumptions about ordinary situations.
computational chemistry
A branch of chemistry that uses computer simulation to assist in solving chemical problems.
computational complexity theory
Focuses on classifying computational problems according to their inherent difficulty.
computational creativity
A multidisciplinary endeavour that includes the fields of artificial intelligence, cognitive psychology, philosophy, and the arts.
computational cybernetics
The integration of cybernetics and computational intelligence techniques.
computational humor
A branch of computational linguistics and artificial intelligence which uses computers in humor research.
computational intelligence
Usually refers to the ability of a computer to learn a specific task from data or experimental observation.
computational learning theory
A subfield of artificial intelligence devoted to studying the design and analysis of machine learning algorithms.
computational linguistics
An interdisciplinary field concerned with the statistical or rule-based modeling of natural language from a computational perspective.
computational mathematics
The mathematical research in areas of science where computing plays an essential role.
computational neuroscience
A branch of neuroscience which employs mathematical models, theoretical analysis and abstractions of the brain.
computational number theory
The study of algorithms for performing number theoretic computations.
computational problem
A mathematical object representing a collection of questions that computers might be able to solve.
computational statistics
The interface between statistics and computer science.
computer-automated design
Design automation usually refers to electronic design automation.
computer audition
See machine listening.
computer science
The theory, experimentation, and engineering that form the basis for the design and use of computers.
computer vision
An interdisciplinary scientific field that deals with how computers can be made to gain high-level understanding from digital images or videos.
concept drift
In predictive analytics and machine learning, the concept drift means that the statistical properties of the target variable change over time.
connectionism
An approach in the fields of cognitive science, that hopes to explain mental phenomena using artificial neural networks.
consistent heuristic
A heuristic function is said to be consistent if its estimate is always less than or equal to the estimated distance from any neighboring vertex to the goal.
constrained conditional model
A machine learning and inference framework that augments the learning of conditional models with declarative constraints.
constraint logic programming
A form of constraint programming, in which logic programming is extended to include concepts from constraint satisfaction.
constraint programming
A programming paradigm wherein relations between variables are stated in the form of constraints.
constructed language
A language whose phonology, grammar, and vocabulary are consciously devised.
control theory
A subfield of mathematics that deals with the control of continuously operating dynamical systems.
convolutional neural network
A class of deep neural network most commonly applied to image analysis.
crossover
In genetic algorithms and evolutionary computation, a genetic operator used to combine the genetic information of two parents.
Darkforest
A computer go program developed by Facebook, based on deep learning techniques using a convolutional neural network.
Dartmouth workshop
The Dartmouth Summer Research Project on Artificial Intelligence was the name of a 1956 summer workshop.
data augmentation
Data augmentation in data analysis are techniques used to increase the amount of data.
data fusion
The process of integrating multiple data sources to produce more consistent, accurate, and useful information.
data integration
The process of combining data residing in different sources and providing users with a unified view of them.
data mining
The process of discovering patterns in large data sets involving methods at the intersection of machine learning, statistics, and database systems.
data science
An interdisciplinary field that uses scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract knowledge and insights from data.
data set
A collection of data.
data warehouse
A system used for reporting and data analysis.
Datalog
A declarative logic programming language that syntactically is a subset of Prolog.
decision boundary
In the case of backpropagation-based artificial neural networks or perceptrons, the type of decision boundary that the network can learn is determined by the number of hidden layers.
decision support system
An information system that supports business or organizational decision-making activities.
decision theory
The study of the reasoning underlying an agent's choices.
decision tree learning
Uses a decision tree to go from observations about an item to conclusions about the item's target value.
declarative programming
A programming paradigm that expresses the logic of a computation without describing its control flow.
deductive classifier
A type of artificial intelligence inference engine.
Deep Blue
A chess-playing computer developed by IBM.
deep learning
A subset of machine learning that focuses on utilizing neural networks to perform tasks such as classification, regression, and representation learning.
DeepMind Technologies
A British artificial intelligence company founded in September 2010, currently owned by Alphabet Inc.
default logic
A non-monotonic logic proposed by Raymond Reiter to formalize reasoning with default assumptions.
Density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise
A clustering algorithm.
description logic
A family of formal knowledge representation languages.
developmental robotics
A scientific field which aims at studying the developmental mechanisms, architectures, and constraints that allow lifelong and open-ended learning.
diagnosis
Concerned with the development of algorithms and techniques that are able to determine whether the behaviour of a system is correct.
dialogue system
A computer system intended to converse with a human with a coherent structure.
diffusion model
A class of latent variable models.
Dijkstra's algorithm
An algorithm for finding the shortest paths between nodes in a weighted graph.
dimensionality reduction
The process of reducing the number of random variables under consideration.
discrete system
Any system with a countable number of states.
distributed artificial intelligence
A subfield of artificial intelligence research dedicated to the development of distributed solutions for problems.
double descent
A phenomenon in statistics and machine learning.
dropout
A regularization technique for reducing overfitting in artificial neural networks.
dynamic epistemic logic
A logical framework dealing with knowledge and information change.
eager learning
A learning method in which the system tries to construct a general, input-independent target function during training of the system.
early stopping
A regularization technique often used when training a machine learning model with an iterative method such as gradient descent.
Ebert test
A test which gauges whether a computer-based synthesized voice can tell a joke.
echo state network
A recurrent neural network with a sparsely connected hidden layer.
embodied agent
An intelligent agent that interacts with the environment through a physical body within that environment.
embodied cognitive science
An interdisciplinary field of research, the aim of which is to explain the mechanisms underlying intelligent behavior.
error-driven learning
A sub-area of machine learning concerned with how an agent ought to take actions in an environment so as to minimize some error feedback.
ensemble learning
The use of multiple machine learning algorithms to obtain better predictive performance.
epoch
In machine learning, an epoch is training the model for one cycle through the full training dataset.
ethics of artificial intelligence
The part of the ethics of technology specific to artificial intelligence.
evolutionary algorithm
A subset of evolutionary computation, a generic population-based metaheuristic optimization algorithm.
evolutionary computation
A family of algorithms for global optimization inspired by biological evolution.
evolving classification function
Evolving classification functions are used for classifying and clustering in the field of machine learning and artificial intelligence.
existential risk
The hypothesis that substantial progress in artificial general intelligence could someday result in human extinction.
expert system
A computer system that emulates the decision-making ability of a human expert.
fast-and-frugal trees
A type of classification tree.
feature
An individual measurable property or characteristic of a phenomenon.
feature extraction
Feature extraction starts from an initial set of measured data and builds derived values.
feature learning
A set of techniques that allows a system to automatically discover the representations needed for feature detection or classification from raw data.
feature selection
The process of selecting a subset of relevant features for use in model construction.
federated learning
A machine learning technique that allows for training models on multiple devices with decentralized data.
first-order logic
A collection of formal systems used in mathematics, philosophy, linguistics, and computer science.
fluent
A condition that can change over time.
formal language
A set of words whose letters are taken from an alphabet and are well-formed according to a specific set of rules.
forward chaining
One of the two main methods of reasoning when using an inference engine.
frame
An artificial intelligence data structure used to divide knowledge into substructures by representing stereotyped situations.
frame language
A technology used for knowledge representation in artificial intelligence.
frame problem
The problem of finding adequate collections of axioms for a viable description of a robot environment.
friendly artificial intelligence
A hypothetical artificial general intelligence that would have a positive effect on humanity.
futures studies
The study of postulating possible, probable, and preferable futures.
fuzzy control system
A control system based on fuzzy logic.
fuzzy logic
A simple form for the many-valued logic, in which the truth values of variables may have any degree of Truthfulness.
fuzzy rule
A rule used within fuzzy logic systems to infer an output based on input variables.
fuzzy set
Fuzzy set theory permits the gradual assessment of the membership of elements in a set.
game theory
The study of mathematical models of strategic interaction between rational decision-makers.
general game playing
General game playing is the design of artificial intelligence programs to be able to run and play more than one game successfully.
generalization
The concept that humans, other animals, and artificial neural networks use past learning in present situations of learning.
generalization error
A measure of how accurately a learning algorithm is able to predict outcomes for previously unseen data.
generative adversarial network
A class of machine learning systems.
generative artificial intelligence
Generative artificial intelligence is artificial intelligence capable of generating text, images, or other media in response to prompts.
generative pretrained transformer
A large language model based on the transformer architecture that generates text.
genetic algorithm
A metaheuristic inspired by the process of natural selection.
genetic operator
An operator used in genetic algorithms to guide the algorithm towards a solution.
glowworm swarm optimization
A swarm intelligence optimization algorithm based on the behaviour of glowworms.
gradient boosting
A machine learning technique based on boosting in a functional space.
graph
In computer science, a graph is an abstract data type that is meant to implement the undirected graph and directed graph concepts.
graph database
A database that uses graph structures for semantic queries with nodes, edges, and properties.
graph theory
The study of graphs, which are mathematical structures used to model pairwise relations between objects.
graph traversal
The process of visiting each vertex in a graph.
hallucination
A response generated by AI that contains false or misleading information presented as fact.
heuristic
A technique designed for solving a problem more quickly when classic methods are too slow.
hidden layer
A layer of neurons in an artificial neural network that is neither an input layer nor an output layer.
hyper-heuristic
A heuristic search method that seeks to automate the process of selecting, combining, generating, or adapting several simpler heuristics.
hyperparameter
A parameter that can be set in order to define any configurable part of a machine learning model's learning process.
hyperparameter optimization
The process of choosing a set of optimal hyperparameters for a learning algorithm.
hyperplane
A decision boundary in machine learning classifiers that partitions the input space into two or more sections.
IEEE Computational Intelligence Society
A professional society of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
incremental learning
A method of machine learning, in which input data is continuously used to extend the existing model's knowledge.
inference engine
A component of the system that applies logical rules to the knowledge base to deduce new information.
information integration
The merging of information from heterogeneous sources.
Information Processing Language
A programming language that includes features intended to help with programs that perform simple problem solving actions.
intelligence amplification
The effective use of information technology in augmenting human intelligence.
intelligence explosion
A possible outcome of humanity building artificial general intelligence.
intelligent agent
An autonomous entity which acts, directing its activity towards achieving goals.
intelligent control
A class of control techniques that use various artificial intelligence computing approaches.
intelligent personal assistant
A software agent that can perform tasks or services for an individual based on verbal commands.
interpretation
An assignment of meaning to the symbols of a formal language.
intrinsic motivation
An intelligent agent is intrinsically motivated to act if the information content alone is the motivating factor.
issue tree
A graphical breakdown of a question that dissects it into its different components.
junction tree algorithm
A method used in machine learning to extract marginalization in general graphs.
kernel method
In machine learning, kernel methods are a class of algorithms for pattern analysis.
KL-ONE
A well-known knowledge representation system in the tradition of semantic networks and frames.
k-nearest neighbors
A non-parametric supervised learning method.
knowledge acquisition
The process used to define the rules and ontologies required for a knowledge-based system.
knowledge-based system
A computer program that reasons and uses a knowledge base to solve complex problems.
knowledge distillation
The process of transferring knowledge from a large machine learning model to a smaller one.
knowledge engineering
All technical, scientific, and social aspects involved in building, maintaining, and using knowledge-based systems.
knowledge extraction
The creation of knowledge from structured and unstructured sources.
knowledge Interchange Format
A computer language designed to enable systems to share and reuse information from knowledge-based systems.
knowledge representation and reasoning
The field of artificial intelligence dedicated to representing information about the world.
k-means clustering
A method of vector quantization.
language model
A probabilistic model that manipulates natural language.
large language model
A language model with a large number of parameters that are adjusted during training.
lazy learning
A learning method in which generalization of the training data is delayed until a query is made to the system.
Lisp
A family of programming languages with a long history and a distinctive, fully parenthesized prefix notation.
logic programming
A type of programming paradigm which is largely based on formal logic.
long short-term memory
An artificial recurrent neural network architecture used in the field of deep learning.
machine vision
The technology and methods used to provide imaging-based automatic inspection and analysis.
Markov chain
A stochastic model describing a sequence of possible events.
Markov decision process
A discrete time stochastic control process.
mathematical optimization
The selection of a best element from some set of available alternatives.
machine learning
The scientific study of algorithms and statistical models that computer systems use in order to perform a specific task effectively without using explicit instructions.
machine listening
A general field of study of algorithms and systems for audio understanding by machine.
machine perception
The capability of a computer system to interpret data in a manner that is similar to the way humans use their senses.
mechanism design
A field in economics and game theory that takes an engineering approach to designing economic mechanisms or incentives.
mechatronics
A multidisciplinary branch of engineering.
metabolic network reconstruction and simulation
Allows for an in-depth insight into the molecular mechanisms of a particular organism.
metaheuristic
A higher-level procedure or heuristic designed to find, generate, or select a heuristic.
model checking
For a given model of a system, exhaustively and automatically checking whether this model meets a given specification.
modus ponens
In propositional logic, modus ponens is a rule of inference.
modus tollens
In propositional logic, modus tollens is a valid argument form and a rule of inference.
Monte Carlo tree search
A heuristic search algorithm for some kinds of decision processes.
multi-agent system
A computerized system composed of multiple interacting intelligent agents.
multilayer perceptron
A name for a modern feedforward neural network.
multi-swarm optimization
A variant of particle swarm optimization.
mutation
A genetic operator used to maintain genetic diversity.
Mycin
An early backward chaining expert system.
naive Bayes classifier
A family of simple probabilistic classifiers based on applying Bayes' theorem.
naive semantics
An approach used in computer science for representing basic knowledge about a specific domain.
name binding
The association of entities with identifiers.
named-entity recognition
A subtask of information extraction.
named graph
A key concept of Semantic Web architecture.
natural language generation
A software process that transforms structured data into plain-English content.
natural language processing
A subfield of computer science, information engineering, and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human languages.
natural language programming
An ontology-assisted way of programming in terms of natural-language sentences.
network motif
Recurrent and statistically significant sub-graphs or patterns.
neural machine translation
An approach to machine translation that uses a large artificial neural network.
neural network
A network of artificial neurons or nodes.
neural Turing machine
A recurrent neural network model.
neuro-fuzzy
Combinations of artificial neural networks and fuzzy logic.
neurocybernetics
A direct communication pathway between an enhanced or wired brain and an external device.
neuromorphic engineering
The use of very-large-scale integration systems containing electronic analog circuits to mimic neuro-biological architectures.
node
A basic unit of a data structure.
nondeterministic algorithm
An algorithm that, even for the same input, can exhibit different behaviors on different runs.
nouvelle AI
Nouvelle AI differs from classical AI by aiming to produce robots with intelligence levels similar to insects.
NP
In computational complexity theory, NP is a complexity class used to classify decision problems.
NP-completeness
A problem is NP-complete when it can be solved by a restricted class of brute force search algorithms.
NP-hardness
The defining property of a class of problems that are at least as hard as the hardest problems in NP.
Occam's razor
The problem-solving principle that states that when presented with competing hypotheses that make the same predictions, one should select the solution with the fewest assumptions.
offline learning
A machine learning training approach in which a model is trained on a fixed dataset.
online machine learning
A method of machine learning in which data becomes available in a sequential order.
ontology learning
The automatic or semi-automatic creation of ontologies.
OpenAI
The for-profit corporation OpenAI LP.
OpenCog
A project that aims to build an open-source artificial intelligence framework.
Open Mind Common Sense
An artificial intelligence project based at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Lab.
open-source software
A type of computer software in which source code is released under a license.
overfitting
The production of an analysis that corresponds too closely or exactly to a particular set of data.
partial order reduction
A technique for reducing the size of the state-space to be searched.
partially observable Markov decision process
A generalization of a Markov decision process.
particle swarm optimization
A computational method that optimizes a problem by iteratively trying to improve a candidate solution.
pathfinding
The plotting, by a computer application, of the shortest route between two points.
pattern recognition
Concerned with the automatic discovery of regularities in data through the use of computer algorithms.
perceptron
An algorithm for supervised learning of binary classifiers.
predicate logic
A collection of formal systems used in mathematics, philosophy, linguistics, and computer science.
predictive analytics
A variety of statistical techniques from data mining, predictive modelling, and machine learning.
principal component analysis
A statistical procedure that uses an orthogonal transformation.
principle of rationality
A principle coined by Karl R. Popper.
probabilistic programming
A programming paradigm in which probabilistic models are specified and inference for these models is performed automatically.
production system
A computer program typically used to provide some form of AI.
programming language
A formal language, which comprises a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output.
Prolog
A logic programming language associated with artificial intelligence and computational linguistics.
propositional calculus
A branch of logic which deals with propositions and argument flow.
proximal policy optimization
A reinforcement learning algorithm for training an intelligent agent's decision function.
Python
An interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language.
PyTorch
A machine learning library based on the Torch library.
Q-learning
A model-free reinforcement learning algorithm for learning the value of an action in a particular state.
qualification problem
The impossibility of listing all of the preconditions required for a real-world action to have its intended effect.
quantifier
In logic, quantification specifies the quantity of specimens in the domain of discourse that satisfy an open formula.
quantum computing
The use of quantum-mechanical phenomena such as superposition and entanglement to perform computation.
query language
Query languages are computer languages used to make queries in databases and information systems.
R programming language
A programming language and free software environment for statistical computing and graphics.
radial basis function network
An artificial neural network that uses radial basis functions as activation functions.
random forest
An ensemble learning method for classification, regression, and other tasks.
reasoning system
A software system that generates conclusions from available knowledge using logical techniques.
recurrent neural network
A class of artificial neural networks where connections between nodes form a directed graph along a temporal sequence.
regression analysis
A set of statistical processes for estimating the relationships between a dependent variable and one or more independent variables.
regularization
A set of techniques such as dropout, early stopping, and L1 and L2 regularization.
reinforcement learning
An area of machine learning concerned with how software agents ought to take actions in an environment so as to maximize some notion of cumulative reward.
reinforcement learning from human feedback
A technique that involves training a reward model to predict how humans rate the quality of generated content.
representation learning
See feature learning.
reservoir computing
A framework for computation that may be viewed as an extension of neural networks.
Resource Description Framework
A family of World Wide Web Consortium specifications.
restricted Boltzmann machine
A generative stochastic artificial neural network that can learn a probability distribution over its set of inputs.
Rete algorithm
A pattern matching algorithm for implementing rule-based systems.
robotics
An interdisciplinary branch of science and engineering.
rule-based system
A rule-based system is used to store and manipulate knowledge to interpret information in a useful way.
satisfiability
A formula is satisfiable if it is possible to find an interpretation that makes the formula true.
search algorithm
Any algorithm which solves the search problem.
selection
The stage of a genetic algorithm in which individual genomes are chosen from a population.
self-management
The process by which computer systems manage their own operation without human intervention.
semantic network
A knowledge base that represents semantic relations between concepts in a network.
semantic reasoner
A piece of software able to infer logical consequences from a set of asserted facts or axioms.
semantic query
Allows for queries and analytics of associative and contextual nature.
semantics
The field concerned with the rigorous mathematical study of the meaning of programming languages.
semi-supervised learning
A machine learning training paradigm characterized by using a combination of a small amount of human-labeled data.
sensor fusion
The combining of sensory data or data derived from disparate sources.
separation logic
An extension of Hoare logic.
similarity learning
An area of supervised learning closely related to classification and regression.
simulated annealing
A probabilistic technique for approximating the global optimum of a given function.
situated approach
The situated approach builds agents that are designed to behave effectively successfully in their environment.
situation calculus
A logic formalism designed for representing and reasoning about dynamical domains.
Selective Linear Definite clause resolution
The basic inference rule used in logic programming.
software
A collection of data or computer instructions that tell the computer how to work.
software engineering
The application of engineering to the development of software in a systematic method.
spatial-temporal reasoning
An area of artificial intelligence which draws from the fields of computer science, cognitive science, and cognitive psychology.
SPARQL
An RDF query language.
sparse dictionary learning
A feature learning method.
speech recognition
An interdisciplinary subfield of computational linguistics.
spiking neural network
An artificial neural network that more closely mimics a natural neural network.
state
A program is described as stateful if it is designed to remember preceding events or user interactions.
statistical classification
The problem of identifying to which of a set of categories a new observation belongs.
state action reward state action
A reinforcement learning algorithm for learning a Markov decision process policy.
statistical relational learning
A subdiscipline of artificial intelligence and machine learning.
stochastic optimization
Any optimization method that generates and uses random variables.
stochastic semantic analysis
An approach used in computer science as a semantic component of natural language understanding.
Stanford Research Institute Problem Solver
An automated planner developed by Richard Fikes and Nils Nilsson.
subject-matter expert
A person who has accumulated great knowledge in a particular field or topic.
superintelligence
A hypothetical agent that possesses intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human minds.
supervised learning
The machine learning task of learning a function that maps an input to an output based on example input-output pairs.
support vector machines
Supervised learning models with associated learning algorithms that analyze data used for classification and regression.
swarm intelligence
The collective behavior of decentralized, self-organized systems.
symbolic artificial intelligence
The term for the collection of all methods in artificial intelligence research that are based on high-level symbolic representations of problems.
synthetic intelligence
An alternative term for artificial intelligence.
systems neuroscience
A subdiscipline of neuroscience and systems biology.
technological singularity
A hypothetical point in the future when technological growth becomes uncontrollable and irreversible.
temporal difference learning
A class of model-free reinforcement learning methods.
tensor network theory
A theory of brain function that provides a mathematical model.
TensorFlow
A free and open-source software library for dataflow and differentiable programming.
theoretical computer science
A subset of general computer science and mathematics.
theory of computation
The branch that deals with how efficiently problems can be solved on a model of computation.
Thompson sampling
A heuristic for choosing actions.
time complexity
The computational complexity that describes the amount of time it takes to run an algorithm.
transfer learning
A machine learning technique in which knowledge learned from a task is reused.
transformer
A type of deep learning architecture that exploits a multi-head attention mechanism.
transhumanism
An international philosophical movement.
transition system
A concept used in the study of computation.
tree traversal
A form of graph traversal.
true quantified Boolean formula
The language TQBF is a formal language.
Turing machine
A mathematical model of computation.
Turing test
A test of a machine's ability to exhibit intelligent behaviour equivalent to that of a human.
type system
A set of rules that assigns a property called type to the various constructs of a computer program.
unsupervised learning
A type of self-organized Hebbian learning.
vision processing unit
A type of microprocessor designed to accelerate machine vision tasks.
Value-alignment complete
A value-alignment complete problem is a problem where the AI control problem needs to be fully solved to solve it.
Watson
A question-answering computer system.
weak AI
Artificial intelligence that is focused on one narrow task.
weak supervision
See semi-supervised learning.
word embedding
A representation of a word in natural language processing.
XGBoost
An open-source software library which provides a regularizing gradient boosting framework.
